          Basic Concepts



Q1. What is Power BI?
    Answer: Power BI is a business analytics tool by Microsoft that enables users to visualize data, share insights, and create interactive reports and dashboards.
 


Q2. What are the key components of Power BI?
    Answer:
	Power BI Desktop: For creating reports.
	Power BI Service: For sharing reports.
	Power Query: For data transformation.
	Power BI Mobile: For accessing reports on mobile devices.



Q3. Explain the difference between Power BI Desktop and Power BI Service.
    Answer: 
	Power BI Desktop is a Windows application used for designing reports,
	while Power BI Service is an online platform to publish, share, and collaborate on reports.



Q4. What are the different types of filters in Power BI?
    Answer:
	Visual-level filters
	Page-level filters
	Report-level filters



Q5. What is the role of a dataset in Power BI?
    Answer: 
	A dataset is a collection of data used to build reports and visualizations.



Q6. How is Power BI different from Excel?
Answer:
	 Power BI focuses on data visualization and collaboration, whereas Excel is more suited for data manipulation and analysis.



Q7. What types of data sources are supported by Power BI?
    Answer:
	 Examples include SQL Server, Excel, Azure, SharePoint, Oracle, Salesforce, and more.



Q8. What are the benefits of using Power BI?
    Answer:
	Easy to use and intuitive interface
	Connects to a wide variety of data sources
	Real-time data visualization
	Integration with Microsoft tools like Excel and Azure



Q9. Explain the role of Power Query in Power BI.
    Answer: 
	Power Query is used to connect, transform, and prepare data for analysis.



Q10. What are the various types of visualizations available in Power BI?
     Answer: 
	Common visuals include bar charts, line charts, pie charts, tables, matrices, KPIs, and maps.



             Data Modeling



What is a relationship in Power BI, and how do you create one?
Answer: Relationships connect tables using keys (e.g., primary and foreign keys). You create them in the Model View by dragging and dropping fields.



What is the difference between a calculated column and a measure?
Answer:

Calculated Column: Computed row-by-row and stored in the dataset.
Measure: Computed dynamically when used in a report.
What is the significance of primary and foreign keys in Power BI relationships?
Answer: A primary key uniquely identifies rows in a table, while a foreign key connects one table to another.

What is cardinality in Power BI relationships?
Answer: Cardinality defines the relationship type (e.g., One-to-One, One-to-Many).

Explain the difference between a star schema and a snowflake schema.
Answer:

Star Schema: Central fact table connected to dimension tables.
Snowflake Schema: Dimension tables are normalized into sub-tables.
What is a hierarchy, and how do you create one in Power BI?
Answer: A hierarchy organizes data into levels (e.g., Year → Quarter → Month). Create it by dragging fields into a parent-child structure.

What is the role of aggregation in Power BI?
Answer: Aggregation summarizes data (e.g., sum, average) to simplify analysis.

What is the difference between Import Mode and DirectQuery?
Answer:

Import Mode: Data is imported into Power BI.
DirectQuery: Queries data directly from the source.
What is a composite model in Power BI?
Answer: A composite model allows combining data from Import Mode and DirectQuery.

What are bidirectional relationships, and when should you use them?
Answer: Bidirectional relationships allow filtering in both directions. Use them carefully to avoid performance issues.

Power Query
What is Power Query Editor?
Answer: A tool in Power BI used for data transformation and cleaning.

What is the difference between Merge and Append in Power Query?
Answer:

Merge: Combines columns from two tables.
Append: Combines rows from two tables.
How do you handle missing or null values in Power Query?
Answer: Replace nulls with default values or remove rows with nulls.

What are the different ways to filter data in Power Query?
Answer: Use conditions, ranges, or column values to filter data.

What is the role of applied steps in Power Query?
Answer: Applied steps are transformations applied to the data, shown in sequential order.

How do you split columns in Power Query?
Answer: Use the "Split Column" option by delimiter or number of characters.

What is the purpose of the "Group By" feature in Power Query?
Answer: Groups data by specified fields and performs aggregations (e.g., sum, count).

What is the difference between transformations and queries in Power Query?
Answer:

Transformation: Modifying data.
Query: A collection of transformations.
How do you combine data from multiple sources in Power Query?
Answer: Use Merge or Append queries.

What is the significance of parameters in Power Query?
Answer: Parameters make queries dynamic and reusable.

DAX (Data Analysis Expressions)
What is DAX, and why is it important in Power BI?
Answer: DAX is a formula language for creating custom calculations in Power BI.

Explain the difference between SUM() and SUMX().
Answer:

SUM(): Adds up values in a single column.
SUMX(): Iterates through rows and applies a calculation.
What is the CALCULATE function, and how is it used?
Answer: Modifies filter context for advanced calculations.

What is the difference between ALL() and ALLSELECTED()?
Answer:

ALL(): Ignores all filters.
ALLSELECTED(): Respects slicer filters.
How do you create a running total using DAX?
Answer:

DAX
Copy code
RunningTotal = CALCULATE(SUM(Sales[Amount]), FILTER(ALL(Sales), Sales[Date] <= MAX(Sales[Date])))
What is the purpose of the FILTER function in DAX?
Answer: Filters a table based on conditions.

How does the RELATED function work in DAX?
Answer: Retrieves values from a related table.

Explain the difference between a row context and a filter context in DAX.
Answer:

Row Context: Evaluates row by row.
Filter Context: Applies filters to calculations.
What is the purpose of the VAR keyword in DAX?
Answer: Defines variables for cleaner and reusable expressions.

How do you handle errors in DAX formulas?
Answer: Use IFERROR to return alternate results.

Visualization
What are slicers, and how do you use them in Power BI?
Answer: Interactive filters that allow users to filter data on visuals.

How do you apply conditional formatting to Power BI visuals?
Answer: Go to the formatting pane and set rules for fields.

What is a KPI visual, and when would you use it?
Answer: Displays progress toward goals, used for tracking performance.

Explain how you can use tooltips in Power BI.
Answer: Tooltips provide additional information when hovering over visuals.

What are bookmarks, and how do they enhance reports?
Answer: Bookmarks capture report states for easy navigation.

How do you create drill-through pages in Power BI?
Answer: Add a drill-through filter to navigate between report pages.

What is the significance of customizing themes in Power BI?
Answer: Themes ensure consistent formatting across visuals.

How do you create a report with multiple pages in Power BI?
Answer: Add pages using the "+" button in Power BI Desktop.

What is the purpose of the drill-down feature in Power BI?
Answer: Explores data hierarchies interactively.

**How do you configure row-level security (RLS